Non-Interactive FTP Download
Windows operating systems ship with a
default FTP client
that can be used for file transfers.
To demonstrate this, let's assume we've
compromised a windows target
and have access to a bind shell
We'll run a netcat listener on port 4444
on our Windows machine to simulate this.
Now we’ll close rdesktop and continue
through the bind shell.
As we’ve seen, the FTP client is an
interactive program
that requires input to complete
so we need a creative solution in order
to use FTP for file transfers.
The ftp help output hints at a feature
that could help us:
The -s option accepts a text-based
command list
that effectively makes the client
non-interactive.
On our attacking machine, we’ll set up an
FTP server,
and initiate a download request for
the Netcat binary
from the compromised Windows host.
First, we’ll place a copy of nc.exe in
our ftp home directory.
We’ve already installed and configured
Pure-FTPd on our Kali machine,
but we’ll restart it to make sure the
service is available.
Next, we’ll build a text file of FTP
commands we want to execute,
using the echo command.
The command file begins with the
open command,
which initiates an FTP connection
to the specified IP address.
Next, the script will authenticate as
offsec with the USER command…
…and supply the password, lab.
At this point we should have a
successfully authenticated FTP connection
and we can script the commands necessary
to transfer our file.
We’ll request a binary file transfer with
bin…
…and issue the GET request for nc.exe.
Finally, we’ll close the connection with
the bye command.
We’re now ready to initiate the FTP
session using the command list
that will effectively make the
interactive session non-interactive.
To do this, we’ll issue the following
FTP command:
We use -v to suppress any returned output
and -n to suppresses automatic login.
Then we’ll use -s to indicate the name of
our command file.
When the ftp command runs, our download
is executed…
…and a working copy of nc.exe should be
transferred to our current directory.